### Team mission

1.Save customer's time by enabling faster basket building and making it easy for customers to re-shop the products they need frequently.

2.Help customers build bigger baskets by inspiring them with product choices and reinforcing the sense of value/deal they get by shopping with WalMex

3.Provide customers with the right information to make tradeoffs and feel confident making a product decision  

4.Increase the efficiency of our pricing and promotions teams



**Primary KPI**

- Product View Rate
- Add to Carts
- Exit Rates
- Search Conversions
- Null Results

Help customers find the right products fast, with better search usability, relevance and ranking



1. Problem-first rather than solution-first mindset
2. Keep problems human centered
3. Hypothesis driven thinking
4. Data informed decision making
5. Partner but know your boundaries

- Search personalization on Solr platform drove significantly higher increase in ATC from search than expectations (3% was commit, 8-12% achieved varied by platform)
- Drove increase in search ATC of 12.9% on OD Walmart web, 9.8% on iOS and 8.7% on Android through enhanced personalization on Solr platform
- Drove increase in search ATC of 4.1% on EA Bodega through department suggestions on search typeahead
- Search is tool that is being used 2/3 of our customers to find the products across banners. Need search that meets market standard in terms of relevancy and ranking to attract and retain customers.

| Banner | Up Time |
| :----- | :------ |
| Sams   | 99.96%  |
| EA     | 99.40%  |
| OD     | 99.74%  |



**Unify and modernize our tech stack**

To win the market, we must move with speed, value and innovation! But our monolithic, legacy tech stack holds us back. We have slow release cycles, limited # of contributors, require specialized skills, and have a single point of failure. In addition, the packaged software requires significant customization (~80%) to meet our needs. We have 4 ATG platforms (3 code bases) which require us to replicate development 3x. All of this results in slower development and higher costs 



 Launch 1 store pilot for Walmart Express on Walmart OD's shared code base and in a single journey while maintaining health metrics *on apps.*Development for unified Profile + Profile Data Migration for online & call center accounts. Launch post Hot Sale in alignment with ops. 

Reduce time to build new features and functionality by **decreasing unique customer journeys** (code base) 



Rigorous, Reliable and automated **metric-driven tracking** for product, engineering and operational excellence goals.



Customer doesn't find what they want on the top rows/pages and spend more time refining queries or exit the search journey

**Q1:**

1. Improvements on User Engagement signals on EA & OD
2. Image and Text similarity for Cold Start problem on EA



### Typeahead

Typeahead departments and Typeahead suggestions on APP /WEB - On Demand

### What is the problem:

Right now, Typeahead Suggestions on OD is being powered by Endeca, which needs to be migrated to Solr. 

### Why is it a problem:

Since we are sunsetting Endeca platform, we want to migrate to Solr platform and thereby inch closer to ATG sunset

### User experience 

There should be no difference in user experience as-is today.



## [Rerank](https://confluence.walmart.com/display/MXGECMEX/Phase+2+Search+Algorithm+-+Include+User+engagement+signals+to+re-rank)

## Vision

Improve product ranking on search pages to help customers find relevant products, fast.

## Goal

Transform the way we rank/boost products with our search ranking algorithm by including user interaction signals (top signals we want to test with) :

- Clicks (CTR - clicks over searches) 
- ATC
- Orders

## **What is the Problem?**

**Less interest generating products** based on historical data, **show up higher on search results**, instead of the high engagement and interest generating items.

 

## **Why is it a Problem?**

With growing product catalog ( marketplace) we need more ways to boost most relevant and potential products top the top of search results. Per the existing boost strategy, only products that have a high sales rank or match score, show up on the top.

- Customers who use search, do not see ranked to the top, trending products and products generating most interest by others on their search

 

## **What can we do to fix it?**

**Use more engagement signals such as Clicks, Cart Adds and Conversions** for products against specific searches to boost most popular and interest generating products to the top rows of search.

***Ratings and Review** - To follow when available in catalog.*

 

## **What benefit can this bring?**

- Surface products to users that have been vouched for by other users to be **products of high interest/engagement**
- This will help with showing product which not only are **popular** but also starting to **trending** in a season or timeframe

## **Documentation**

https://confluence.walmart.com/display/MXGECMEX/Phase+2+Search+Algorithm+-+Include+User+engagement+signals+to+re-rank



[Category classification](https://confluence.walmart.com/display/MXGECMEX/Search+Algorithm+-+Category+Classification+on+OD)

https://confluence.walmart.com/display/MXGECMEX/Search+Algorithm+-+Category+Classification+on+EA

### What’s the Problem?

Products with lower relevance to the intent show up higher than products with actual match with the search intent

### Why is it a Problem?

Terms like “iphone”, show items from categories:

'Cell phone cases' and 'cell phone accessories' before iphone cellphones from 'smartphones' category

### Objective

Boosting results using **Category Classification** of search terms

### Metrics

- Lift in Add to cart search
- Lift in Search conversion rate(SCR)
- Lift in %Revenue contribution from search
- Lower operations overhead



Unified search 

We believe that a unified catalog across all banners provides a richer assortment for our shoppers leading to greater selection and higher conversion. 20% of EA searches could be positively impacted with a broader selection and availability. More importantly, increasing visibility to cross-banner selection, will lead to higher share of wallet, frequency, and customer lifetime value.

Phase I in this journey focuses on showcasing relevant Super and Superama assortment to EA shoppers during search.



Design Long term architecture : Search

The Goal of this EPIC is to design a search solution that will answer all current search needs,

The design should include end state of the system as well as the phases to get there

 

- Multivariate Testing (test more than 2 algo versions at a time)
- Separating ranking as a new service
- Improve Search index pipeline - modernization.
- Be able to reindex and run search without the a strong coupling with Oracle/ATG
- Define interfaces how to push data from different sources.
- Differentiate between index/search and caching
- Build a system that can scale as factor of data and search queries.
- Integrate data from user behavior to support NRT personalization
- Support releases of index vs code/new algorithms
- Support incremental and complete indexing



CI/CD Conord, Oneops



# [Kafka Pipeline Integration ](https://confluence.walmart.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=321696030)



https://confluence.walmart.com/display/MXGECMEX/ATG+EOL+-+Migration+Plan+for+Search

Situation: Describe the situation that you were in or the task that you needed to accomplish. You must describe a specific event or situation, not a generalized description of what you have done in the past. Be sure to give enough detail for the interviewer to understand. This situation can be from a previous job, from a volunteer experience, or any relevant event. 

Task: What goal were you working toward? 

Action: Describe the actions you took to address the situation with an appropriate amount of detail and keep the focus on YOU. What specific steps did you take and what was your particular contribution? Be careful that you don’t describe what the team or group did when talking about a project, but what you actually did. Use the word “I,” not “we” when describing actions. 

Result: Describe the outcome of your actions and don’t be shy about taking credit for your behavior. What happened? How did the event end? What did you accomplish? What did you learn? Make sure your answer contains multiple positive results. 

STAR: “Let me share you a quick story: 一开始事情是这样的......问题是.....我做了.....结果是.....”
Situation：事情是在什么情况下发生
Task：你是如何明确你的任务的
Action：针对这样的情况分析，你采用了什么行动方式
Result：结果怎样，在这样的情况下你学习到了什么

monolithic architecture



## 话术

1. That’s a good point，但一些现实原因，如budget有限，时间有限等，我们未能在这方面深入，这样来结束现在的话题

   在讨论LP之前，我们先讨论一下如何开始一场interview 以及如何professional 的结束它。很重要。这些细节虽然不会直接起决定性的作用，但我觉得会给面试官留下一个好的印象。
   1. 上来先尬聊, 不要冷场。尽自己最大的努力，把场子活起来。以下是一些可开头的句式：
   “How are you?/How are you doing today?/Are u currently working from home?”
   "Hey! How is it going?! God, I don't even remembr how long I have been working from home，feels like longer than it actually is."
   "I am actually really excited about the interviews, this is the only chance to talk to someone outside of my apartment" 此时配上你的性格大笑。
   "How are things in Seattle? People start to wear masks and take things seriously now, hope it gets better soon!"

   2. 准备一段30-40s内的pitch(网上example很多, 但肯定需要有的姓名、学校、专业、毕业时间、感兴趣的领域、两三句经历介绍等)
   pitch很容易被大家忽视，但它重要的程度不亚于任何LP的问题。为什么？因为不只是亚麻，你去参加任何一个面试或者career fair都会要给对方自我介绍。

   3. 面试中/Coding中
   1.1 如果你可能会沉默一会，要告诉面试官：
   “Hi, if I am silent for a couple secs/mins, I am just thinking through the question.”


   1.2 如果面试官问你这道题是不是做过
   “I do not have the chance to solve exactly question before, but this question is a very typical DFS/BFS/Graph等等 problem. I do prepare because I take this opportunity seriously. I don’t want to waste the opportunity and I don’t waste your time.”

   1.3 如果面试官问到某个你不会的skill/framework/language
   I do not have a chance to go deep about it but I am very interested in growing my skills in this area. I am a fast learner and making the transition won`t be a challenge.

   1.4 Coding中可用句子
   Ok. Perfect. Thank you very much!

   Is that a good understanding of it? I am more comfortable with Java. So I will start my method signature with Java.

   So now I have my method signature, I will run a couple of simple examples to illustrate my thoughts.

   What are input/output types? Could I name the variables like....?? Further question: .....(ensure the inputs are valid, form well)

   I think I could break down my pseudo code into this...Does this look like an ok approach?

   4. Question to Ask Interviwers (Google上很多例子，可以自己选择）
      What is your favorite part working here?
      What is your favorite Amazon leadership principle and why?
      What is the team culture like?
      What do you think are the most important qualities for someone to be really successful in this position?
      What are the common career paths in this department?
      What are the biggest challenges the company is facing right now?
      What is the typical day at Amazon?

   5. 结束后
      It’s a pleasure to be here and I am very excited about this opportunity.
      Thank you for giving me this great opportunity to interview today.
      I am very excited to have the opportunity to be interviewed here on Amazon.
      记住说: Have a great day.



Could you tell me the process of the hiring by any chance?

What is the responsibility of your team?







